Hi friends in this video let us discuss about
Pointer comparison
So the first comparison operator that we are going to
discuss is equality operator and the Equality operator is ==
it checks whether a pointer points to NULL or two pointer
is pointing the same memory location
See an example programme here. First we have an
integer array of five elements
10 20 30 40 and 50
Now we declare an integer pointer p
Now we set p = NULL. So p  has NULL value now.
Now we have an if condition, if p=NULL
which is true
So we get the output
p is NULL.
Now let us discuss about not equal operator which is !=
In many cases this is very useful
because accessing NULL pointer causes undefined behaviour
So we need to do null check before using the
pointer
See this example we have the same array created and
we declare pointer p. Now we assign the base address
of array to p. Now we have the if condition
If p not equal to NULL which is true
So we get the output arr[0] equal to 10
The other comparison operators are less than, less than or equal to
greater than and greater than or equal to
Let us understand it
Using the example
Programme
First we create the array with five elements
Now we create two integer
pointers P and Q
Now we assign arr[0] to P
and arr[2] to Q. So P has 1024 and
Q has 1032
Now we have the if condition
If P less than Q
Which is true
So we get the output
Q is ahead of P
Similarly we can use other comparison operators also
But all these are meaningful only when they both point
to the elements of this same array
Now let us discuss about subtracting two pointers
When we subtract two pointers it will print the
number of blocks present in between those two pointers
Again we are creating the array with elements 10 20 30
40 and 50
Now we create two integer pointers  P and Q
Now we assign arr[0]  to P and arr[2] to Q
So P has 1024 and Q has 1032 now.
Now we subtract P from Q and we get 2
since we have two blocks to reach P and
it will be printed
Now we subtract  Q from P and we get negative
value -2
Since P has a smaller address than Q and it
will be printed
So these are the major comparison operators that work on
pointers
So that's all and thank you for watching this video